# citi-bike-tableau-challenge

Link to presentation: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/jack.elsbrock/viz/CitiBikeDashboard_16736571718980/CitiBikePresentationLinks

Citi Bike Analysis
Using the data from each month of 2022, these dashboards were created to get a better grasp on the profile of an average user of Citi Bikes and their preferences. First, I created the Rider Type visualizations to compare the amount of member vs casual rides throughout the 2022 calendar year broken down by month. Then I used the same timeframe to create visualizations of the type of bike used by each rider. Finally, I used maps to show where each bike ride was started and ended.


Rider Type Dashboard
The main finding of this dashboard was that roughly 2/3 of all rides taken in 2022 were by members of the Citi Bike service. As expected, the total amount of rides taken during the spring & summer months (Apr - Sept) far outweigh the amount taken during fall & winter (Jan - Mar & Oct - Dec). I was surprised to learn that the amount of member rides during the summer were still more than the amount of casual riders. My thinking was that tourists in the city would take far more rides compared to year-long residents who are signed up for the member service. It goes to show that the member service is valuable to residents of the city and it is actually used as a major form of transportation. On the flip side of the coin, the total time that casual members are riding bikes is far greater than that of members. That would tell me that members are using the bikes to get around and making direct trips where as casual members are more likely to be tourists who are using the bikes to go sightseeing and don't have as much of an agenda.


Bike Type Dashboard
The classic bike type is used far more than the electric bike type according to both charts on this dashboard. Obviously, this may be due to differences in inventory levels. It would only make sense that the classic bikes have been around much longer and are more practical due to not having to be charged. Additionally, the time taken on electric bikes will be lower due to them being faster than the classic bikes (as we can see in the line chart). One expectation I had that didn't show in the graphs was that the electric bikes would be more commonly used (as a percentage of total rides) in the winter months than summer months. However, the data shows that the electric bikes are used more in the summer than in the winter. That might be due to Citi Bike regulating the amount of total bikes out in service throughout the year but still an interesting trend to point out. Another piece of evidence to support the seasonality argument would be that the docked bikes reach their highest total of time in July, a month with the second highest amount of rides in the whole year.


Start & End Point Map Dashboard
The last dashboard shows a visual breakdown of the starting point and the ending point of each ride. I used the Jersey City data in order to contain the data to a more specific area. Every single ride was started in Jersey City. And while most where also ended in Jersey City, the ending point map shows a lot of riders took the bikes into Manhattan and even a few as far as Brooklyn. An interesting part of these maps was that the start point doesn't always seem to be at a designated station. Even if two rides were started at the same station (by name), they could have been shown as having different starting coordinates. This can been seen on the starting points map; most beginning points have one big circle to represent a lot of rides starting in the same space, then many smaller circles around it to show rides that started near the docking station but weren't actually in a dock. I would deduce those are the classic bikes that don't need to be docked in order to complete a ride and the next user of those bikes can start a ride without picking up from a dock.